
--- PAGE 1 ---
Laboratory Information System
HCLAB
www.sysmex-ap.com
Empowering the diagnostic 
laboratory

--- PAGE 2 ---
2  | 
HCLAB is a comprehensive, flexible and practical laboratory information system (LIS) that can be easily configured to 
the needs of your laboratory.
Designed to streamline routine tasks, HCLAB is suitable for medical and diagnostic laboratory disciplines including 
haematology, coagulation, biochemistry, immunology, urinalysis, microbiology, molecular and anatomical pathology.
HCLAB is highly scalable, making it ideal for any size laboratory, from small dedicated project sites through to complex 
multi-site healthcare organisations and university hospitals.  
HCLAB ensures end-to-end information management, from initial test request through to results reporting and 
delivery. 

--- PAGE 3 ---
  | 3
HCLAB LIS
Order Entry
HCLAB’s smart client workstation provides web access for clinical staff on the ward or branch hospital to request an 
order, as well as enabling order entry in the laboratory.
Key features include:
•  User-definable screen panel for rapid order entry
• Rapid test selections via ‘quick mode’ – allows patient data to follow
• Rule-based engine provides decision support at the point-of-order, e.g. additional tests, testing instructions
• Alerts on duplicate orders
• Automatic routing of orders to the correct work area or analyser for testing
• Internal messaging function
• Free text patient comment entry
• Specimen barcode label generation


--- PAGE 4 ---
Specimen Management
HCLAB’s specimen check-in module enables your laboratory to: 
This module is used to manages and tracks samples sent to external laboratories for testing that is not performed 
in-house. Includes the ability to generate test order lists, monitor turnaround time and scan the report once received 
from the external lab into HCLAB for reporting. 
• Capture the specimen arrival date and time
• Generate specimen barcode labels 
• Automatically route specimens to the correct work area or analyser
• Use the “Quick Mode” option to speed up specimen check-in (especially useful in a high-volume specimen 
environment)
• Decline specimens that are technically unsuitable for processing or testing
Sent Out Test Management
HCLAB ensures complete management of specimen archiving and tracking, with an advanced search function to 
enable quick location of stored sample tubes.

--- PAGE 5 ---
Result Management and Processing
HCLAB’s robust interfaces enable automatic download of results from analysers for review and authorisation, 
eliminating transcription errors and ensuring result accuracy. 
HCLAB interfaces handle results in multiple formats including numerical, textual and graphical. 
  | 5
HCLAB LIS
The online analyser results module provides a real-time overview of the work being processed by each analyser. It 
enables the user to access results directly, and to view, validate, add or amend tests and order repeat testing for each 
analyser connected to the HCLAB workstation.
The rules-based engine supports features such as automatic flagging of abnormal results and automatic reflex testing.
Additional features include: panic result notification; manual result entry including rich text capabiities; ability to 
attach images and PDFs to a result. 


--- PAGE 6 ---
Quality Control
To ensure the highest level of results accuracy, HCLAB includes a comprehensive Quality Control (QC) module. QC 
features include:
• Support for both numerical and textual QC results
• QC graphs for trend analysis
• Multi-level per assay Levey Jennings plot
• Twelve configurable Westgard rules and real-time Westgard checks
• Calculated sigma value using six sigma technologies
This specialised area of HCLAB helps the laboratory to maintain sufficient reagents, avoid any wastage due to expired 
reagents, monitors analyser consumption and calculates cost per test.
Reagent Inventory Management
6  | 

--- PAGE 7 ---
Result Enquiry
HCLAB’s flexible and intelligent search engine provides quick and easy access to individual patient results with 
multiple search options available.  Utilizing the advanced rule-based technology, HCLAB also provides  the ability to 
query specific patient result combinations across the entire HCLAB database – a useful tool to support lab and clinical 
data research studies.  
Key features include:
Patient report presentation formats are fully customisable. 
• Consolidated and cumulative patient reports
• Numerical and graphical format
• Automatic color-coded flagging of abnormal, validated and edited results
HCLAB LIS
HCLAB offers a range of report delivery options which can be configured to meet individual customer reporting 
needs, including print, fax, email, secure access via web browser or mobile device, as well as HL7 to third party EHR 
or clinical system. 
HCLAB report management and delivery is fast, accurate and flexible, helping deliver first-rate customer service.
Patient Report Presentation and Delivery
  | 7

--- PAGE 8 ---
Management Tools
Unlocking the data in the LIS is key to supporting the daily management of your laboratory. HCLAB provides a range 
of administrative and statistical report tools to support management activities.
The HCLAB Dashboard gives laboratory personnel greater insight into their key performance indicators via an           
eye-catching user interface. 
Collating real-time data from multiple sources in the LIS database, the management dashboard provides a graphical 
summary of important laboratory statistics, including monitoring of daily performance, key metrics and throughput 
at the laboratory. It also delivers actionable information enabling more informed decisions to be made easily and 
quickly.
8  | 

--- PAGE 9 ---
HCLAB LIS
  | 9
With over 1000 installations and more than 500 
analyser interfaces throughout the Asia Pacific 
region, HCLAB has earned its reputation as a 
comprehensive and versatile state-of-the-art 
laboratory information system.

--- PAGE 10 ---
HCLAB Modules
HCLAB Microbiology
Paperless solution for processing micro requests through the HCLAB LIS analyser 
interfaces, enabling electronic data flows and eliminating transcription errors and saving 
time.
Intuitive electronic worksheets eliminate the need for paper documentation.
Simplifies result and report management.
HCLAB AP
Paperless electronic workflow management system.
Streamlines workflow and processes throughout the Anatomical Pathology laboratory.
Significantly improves throughput in the AP laboratory.
HCLAB 
Blood Bank
Flexible electronic data management for blood banks.
Allows for efficient and reliable blood product management.
HCLAB WAM
Advanced middleware that supports the processes and workflow specific to Sysmex 
haematology and urinalysis work areas.
Applies rules to determine slide review, auto verify test results, real- time delta checking 
and auto repeat and reflex testing.
Intuitive user-friendly GUI provides control of the entire testing process.
Online Results
HCLAB Dr Portal
HCLAB Ward Enquiry
Healthcare providers (Doctors, specialists, midwives, pharmacists) can securely access all 
results and diagnostic reports for their patient in one central place, via a website or on a 
mobile device
Provides an intuitive user interface which presents all laboratory results clearly and 
accurately including abnormal highlighting, cumulative and graph view plus tools to 
manage results
Supports two-factor authentication for easy remote access
Patient confidentiality is safeguarded, with the ability to restrict access and maintenance 
of a full audit trail
10  | 

--- PAGE 11 ---
HCLAB Technology Features
HCLAB LIS
Smart client 
application
Delivers the application over a web Hypertext Transfer Protocol (HTTP) connection.
Provides automated installation and updates.
Has the look and feel of a desktop application.
Multisite 
configuration
HCLAB Smart Client HTTP connection means that system access is available from any 
location that has web connectivity. The most important benefit of this feature is that it 
provides a centralized system enabling multi-lab configuration where each remote site can 
be configured to support its own operation without having their own LIS server. This also 
means a lower cost of ownership.
Rules-based 
engine
Supports customisable rules to aid in decision making for order entry, auto verification 
of patient results, reflex additional testing, adding automatic comments and result query. 
An easy to use UI allows administrators to build rules on numerous data points, including 
test results, instrument flags, delta violations, wards/clinics, clinicians, patients, order pri-
orities,  patient clinical info, patient gender, and patient ages.
Standards and 
interoperability
HCLAB utilises the latest standards including Microsoft technologies and Oracle relational 
databases.
Creates a standard environment providing users with peace of mind, the ability to link with 
other systems and provision for future expansion.
HL7 interface standards for easy integration into both the laboratory and hospital envi -
ronments.
Ensures dynamic, diverse communication between systems at all times.
High Connectivity
An extensive library of over 500 instrument interfaces ensures wide ranging connectivity 
and support for major clinical instrumentation vendor giving laboratories flexibility.  
HCLAB conforms to HL7 and ASTM for host interfacing ensuring integration with other 
medical systems such as EMR / HIS.
Security
Security is enforced at user login level through the use of system IDs and passwords.
Access is based on group definition, allowing access to predefined features for that group.
All actions are logged, creating a full audit trail which can be easily viewed by the admin -
istrator.
Single sign-on Supports centralised authentication with Lightweight Directory Access Protocol (LDAP).
  | 11

--- PAGE 12 ---
Sysmex Asia Pacific Pte Ltd
Tel +65 6221-3629   Fax +65 6221-3687
www.sysmex-ap.com
Sysmex (Thailand) Co., Ltd
Tel +66 (2) 032-2536   Fax +66 (2) 116-5396
www.sysmex.co.th
Sysmex India Pvt. Ltd
Tel +91 (22) 6112-6666
www.sysmex.co.in
Sysmex Philippines Inc.
Tel +63 (2) 621-2460  Fax +63 (2) 621-2432
www.sysmex.com.ph
PT Sysmex Indonesia
Tel +62 (21) 3002-6688  Fax +62 (21) 3002-6699
www.sysmex.co.id
Sysmex Vietnam Co., Ltd
Tel +84 (8) 3997-9400  Fax +84 (8) 3997-9405
www.sysmex.com.vn
Sysmex (Malaysia) Sdn Bhd
Tel +60 (3) 5637-1788  Fax +60 (3) 5637-1688
www.sysmex.com.my
Sysmex Vietnam Co., Ltd (Hanoi Branch)
Tel +84 (4) 3776-7020  Fax +84 (4) 3776-7022
www.sysmex.com.vn
Sysmex New Zealand Ltd
Tel +64 (9) 630-3554
www.sysmex.co.nz
Sysmex Australia Pty Ltd
Tel +61 (2) 9016-3040
www.sysmex.com.au
SNZ/IT/HCLABLIS/19122019 /V1.0 Design and specifications may be subject to change without prior notice due to further product development.
With over 1000 installations and more than 500 analyser interfaces throughout the Asia Pacific region, HCLAB has 
earned its reputation as a comprehensive and versatile state-of-the-art laboratory information system. 
Designed, developed and supported by Sysmex, HCLAB offers the diagnostic laboratory an extensive breadth of 
functionality while ensuring rapid installation and regular software updates. Sysmex are committed to the 
continued development of HCLAB and feed customer requirements into the product development roadmap.
For more information or for a case study on an HCLAB implementation, please contact your local Sysmex 
representative.